hey this is precious tall Walker and
you're watching mind your decisions the
William Lowell Putnam mathematical
competition or more commonly called the
Putnam competition is an annual exam for
undergraduate college students in the
United States and Canada you have three
hours to solve six problems and then
another three hours to solve another six
problems that's a total of six hours for
12 questions or an average of 30 minutes
per problem each question is worth 10
points for a maximum of 120 points but
most people don't do that well the
average median score is about one point
even though the students taking it are
generally really really good at math
most of the participants has spent hours
and hours preparing for the exam and
they're willing to take an extra six
hour test on the first Saturday in
December around the time of their other
college final exams so they're generally
very dedicated students who take this
exam in this video we'll focus on the
1978 putnam exam problem b1 a convex
octagon inscribed in a circle has four
consecutive sides of length three and
four consecutive sides of length to find
the area of the octagon can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
[Music]
so let's get started by sketching the
shape we have a circle and then we have
four consecutive sides of length three
and four consecutive sides of length two
I'll admit this is about as far as I got
with this problem because I could not
figure out a way to deconstruct the
shape into areas that I could solve
however I like learning about these
kinds of problems so that I can share
interesting problem-solving techniques
with you and this particular problem has
a very elegant solution the creative
solution depends on slicing up the shape
like a pizza so we take the center of
the circle and then we slice it up into
triangles and each of these lengths is a
radius of the circle so we now have a
shape that consists of four isosceles
triangles with side lengths RR and three
and four isosceles triangles with side
lengths RR and two the insight is that
we can rearrange these triangles to
create a new octagon with exactly the
same area as the original octagon so how
can we do that well take these green
triangles and form a cross and then
we'll fill in the remaining areas with
these yellow triangles we now have an
octagon with alternating side lengths of
three and two so now how can we figure
out the area of this shape well again
you need to think outside the box we'll
create a square around this octagon now
each of these corners is an isosceles
right triangle so each length here is
the square root of two the rest of the
lengths are three so we can calculate
the area of the octagon is equal to the
area of the square minus the area of
four of these triangles we can calculate
each of these areas pretty routinely the
area of the square will be the area of a
square with a side length of three plus
two times the square root of two so we
the side length and we get 17 plus 12
times the square root of 2 we then
calculate the area of one triangle as
1/2 times the square root of 2 times the
square root of 2 which equals 1 so the
area that octagon will equal the area of
the square minus 4 times the area of the
triangle and this simplifies to be 13
plus 12 times the square root of 2 and
that's the answer did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watchful free
on YouTube inspire and build confidence
for people around the world and they
already have over a hundred million
views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can math
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all of mind your
decisions videos email me a puzzle or
math topic presh and mind your decisions
calm and if you so choose you can check
out my books which are linked in the
video description and you can support me
on patreon for exclusive rewards thanks
for watching and thanks for your support